```
blairmunroakusa@0459.022422.anch.AK:goldcouch
```

### This is me writing about all the thinking I've done in the past 7 days


Focus.

I had a nice dream click. All I need from the operator is an ID and a password. ID and password will derive opmain account. From there, integers and opmain / piece account addresses will derive everything else. As Zicklag suggested, I just need to eat the rent and store the owner's authorized (wallet) pubkey in each opmain and piece account. This will be the 'target' field for those account types. To deal with the auto propagation to opmain accounts, that's where the self-ref will come into play, for which the target account will not be the holder's pubkey, rather, it will be the opmain accoount address.

From here, all actions on refaccounts, pieces, or opmains will need the same stored wallet pubkey for authorization. It will be up to the operator to choose a sufficiently complex password to avoid brute force tipjar grabs.

.

.

.

Took time to compute the cost of deriving PDAs on chain. looking at about 3400 units per address. All derivations will need to happen off chain on the app.

As for string length, I can still accept unicode characters...I just need to check the length before accepting a string with

.as_bytes().len()

.

.

.

Flow: client takes in piece address. Client gets account info, then generates array of ref addresses. Client then iterates over the array, sending one ref address to payfract with instruction to payout balance to ref piece. Client gets piece balance and saves. Payfract program reads account info from raf account. Payfract reads flags. If ref is disconnected, then payfract deposits lamports in ref account itself, Payfract gets fraction and target. If disconnected, transfer to ref account and decrement balance state, increment netsum. If connected, transfer to piece and decrement balance, increment netsum. Then flip payed flag opposite. Return success. Complete iterations. Finally iterate over self ref account and transfer remaining balance to  Finally, if successful, flip piece payed flag to match refs. I think that's it for one fractal.

blairmunroakusa@0514.022522.anch.AK:goldcouch

I am making the design call to side with paulx's protocol buffer implementation. This is because it seems more transparent than the borsh package, which as nice as it sounds, I would rather see more nuts and bolts.

Init flow again: operator provides wallet pubkey and OPID, client finds pda from pubkey seed, client checks payfract Main accounts for match, if none, client creates new pda, self piece and ref are in same motion, so client derives address for self piece from Main address and OPID as seed, then, client derives selfref address from piece address + 0. Now, client creates three accounts, then creates init transaction. Transaction in three ix, 1)initMain, 2)initPiece, 3)initRef. Each gets
