```
blairmunroakusa@0806.021022.anch.AK:redcouch
```

### This is me writing about all the thinking I've done in the past three days

The hard part has been figuring out what the design constraints are, and that really requires the vision of how the system will fuction (a detailed vision) be fully formed.

#### VISION STUFF

I have a piece. It is the blogpost that will explain payfract as a reference implementation for soldev. There are a couple pieces in particular that I will cite as references. I want to be able to accept tips, but unlike a standard tipjar, I want my tipjar to automatically distribute tips to my references, according to some predetermrined proportion. I'll probably break it 50/50.

When somebody makes a tip, I really want them to see who exactly was included in the tip fractal, in the form of a receipt.

So I have an imaginary fully functioning system:

First I need to setup my piece. Before I start, I collect some information:

	. what are my references (a name / title)
	. what fraction of incoming tips does each one get
	. who are my references (this may not be crucial for this step)
	. where are my references (how to contact)

At this point I go to payfract.wp.computer, and navigate to the /setup/ page. There I am greeted by a web interface that is tailored to handle piece setup events. (?) Somehow, this page links to a wallet the takes SOL, and guides me through the process of interacting with the payfract bc program to setup a piece account. The output of this process will be a single piece account, and n reference accounts, where n is the number of references I collected. I will have a key that designates me as the authority of the account (I can withdraw funds), and the payfract app will own the account. (? need to figure out ownership details) I will also have the address of the piece account that I can share with anybody who wants to use me as a payfract reference. I necessarily need information about the generated reference accounts.

_At this point I realize that the ref acount derived addresses may be public, and that interference may be run by anybody who creates accounts futher along the generation sequence._

So, a piece setup will consist of three main parts. The third part will only be relevant if the reason I am setting up my PF piece is because somebody shared a prikey/address of a ref account with a balance I can claim.

##### CHAIN-SIDE

##### STEP 1: Initialize piece on-chain:

I tell the interface how many references I have. I also tell the interface the piece name I have chosen. That's it. At this point, client-side logs the name, maybe at /database/, then generates an account keypair, then payfract creates an account with address pubkey, and space = REFCOUNT + BALANCE + ACCOUNTDATA(tbd).

Once the main piece account has been created, payfract than generates the ref accounts. It does so by generating a PDA from the piece main address (pubkey) and the account number as an integer being the seed. The ref account space = BALANCE + TARGET + FRACT, where FRACT is a u16 int designating  some rational fraction out of 100,000 (increments of a 1000th a %), where TARGET is a 32 B address initialized to 0, and BALANCE is the accumulated total available balance.

_ref account non transient balance will always be 0 if connected to a ref piece, and nonzero if disconnected (value being the amount of accumulated unclaimed funds)._

##### STEP 2: Set up ref accounts:

Now, a new instruction is issued to set the FRACT and TARGET re account values according to prompted user-inputs. Upon issue, payfract regenerates the PDAs from piece main acct one by one, setting FRACT and TARGET appropriately. If no target piece exists, TARGET = pubkey, where prikey is returned to the operator as the 'invitation key'.

##### STEP 3: Link main to upstream:

If any upstream accounts exist, and the operator is ready to link, then the operator will have already communicated with the citing piece creator, and will have received a private key invitation to link accounts.

Front-end will ask if any upstream cite pieces need linking, and if so, to submit prikey and piece name / number provided by creator. payfract will derive the ref account address, set TARGET to main piece pubkey, and transfer ref account balance to main, calling the payout program to propagate balance to newly setup ref accounts. This repeats until all cite pieces are connected to mainpiece.

##### DONE

At the end of that process, the operator won't need all those prikeys anymore. 

_AT THIS POINT I AM WONDERING IF THE PIECE MAIN ACCT NEEDS TO BE PDA, WITH SEED BEING THE OFFIFIAL 'PIECE DESIGNATOR'. THIS WOULD MAKE IT EASIER FOR A CREATOR TO MANAGE MANY PIECES, WITH ONE KEYPAIR, THEN A SEARCHABLE REGISTRY OF PIECE NAMES AS SEEDS._

# REDO 3-STEP INIT PROCESS

##### STEP 0: Initialize payfract operator main account

Create new account from keypair. Operator has prikey, and is account authority.

##### STEP 1: Initialize new piece

Payfract creates piece main with PDA, from operator main pubkey + piece name seed.

Piece name is logged off-chain, with # refs.

Ref accounts created with PDAs, from piece main acct address + integer seed.

##### STEP 2: Set up ref accounts

payfract gets ref name from operator. If refname exists, then payfract either looks up ref piece main, or just grabs it directly from operator. So, TARGET = ref operator pubkey + piecename PDA, and FRACT is set.

##### STEP 3: Link main to upstream

Now the only thing different is that upstream refs will now have PDA addresses associated with them, that in principle can be identified with knowledge of the creator's pubkey. This will allow creators to make their tip stream transparent by publishing their public key. (This might be a stupid assertion because it will be possible to track payments to operator main every time a payfract propagation occurs. ....whatever)

##### DONE

##### INVENTORY:

```
ONE PIECE =
main
disc = 8
REF# = 2	u16 int
BALANCE = 8 	u64 int
	= 18 B
ref
disc = 8
FRACT = 4	u32 int
TARGET = 32	[u8; 32]
(prefix) = 4
BALANCE = 8	u64 int
	= 56 B

space = 18 + (56 * N)		or w 63 char name (63*4 + 4) = 256B

0 REF 	= 18	>	0.102 $		0.280 $
1 REF 	= 74	>	0.141 $		0.319 $
2 REF 	= 130	>	0.180 $		0.358 $
3 REF 	= 186	>	0.219 $		0.397 $
5 REF 	= 298	>	0.294 $		0.472 $
10 REF 	= 578	>	0.491 $		0.669 $
20 REF	= 1156	>	0.894 $		1.072 $
100 REF	= 5618	>	4.000 $		4.178 $

at 1 SOL = $100

... not bad.
```

#### after more reading

I decided it will be safest to distribute the piece namespace across the sum of piece accounts. This comes at an additional cost of 18c per piece, for a 63 UTF-8 character name (63 being max label length for a web domain address, eg, for a subdomain length).

Now it goes:

Create operator main account via keypair gen.

Create main piece account via PDA, where PDA = payfractID + pubkey + piecename = pieceID

Generate ref piece accounts via PDA, where PDAs = payfractID + pieceID + [0..int] = refpieceIDs

For unconnected refpieces, generate keypair, stash pubkey as TARGET, store prikey and temprefname with client.

For connected refpieces, get ref main pieceID and set to TARGET


.

.

.

I also determined that the ref account TARGET can simply be the pubkey from the invitation keypair generation.

The invitee can generate the pubkey once gifted the invitation prikey, then use client to find appropriate payfract account to link to. In this case, temporary ref piecename can just be stored in the wallet of the operator so that they don't get things mixed up. We don't need to fuck with indexing because the operator can likewise deduce which ref account is which by generating the pubkey from prikey / ref piecename pair in wallet.
