```
blairmunroakusa@0605.021122.anch.AK:goldcouch
```

### This is me writing about all the thinking I've done in the past day

picking off where let off yesterday. ... I was interested in how to set a discriminator for account filtering purposes. What I wanted to do was 'exploit the system discriminator like anchor does' to discriminate accounts in terms of operator name. False assumption, discriminator is not a system parameter, it is something Anchor implements to more reliably implement account verification. In anchor's case apparently it is an extra check to make sure incoming accounts aren't substituted for one another. (This does nothing to protect against spoofing.)

So the discriminator is an automatically prepended identifier, generated / prepared / added by the #[account] macro. I need to figure out how Anchor does this.

I caught myself torn between using anchor for security purposes vs sticking to naked rust. I figure, because I am keeping piece behavior and structure simple, it should be easy enough to write robust code without a framework. BUT I still need to study the framework to understand why it does what it does, to reflect those considerations in my own work.

THOUGHT
```
design process (mine) ... ball-stick diagram:
1 - breath between macro simple complex simple
2 - to figure out if macro simple works, vary
3 - breath between micros simple complex simple
4 - result defines delta between macro init and macro final

		    delta
		   /
		O _ _ .
	/	|     |
breath /	|     |
       \	. - - O
		   \
		    variance
wrong diagram ... need (1(1,2),2(1,2))

```

Okay now I need to figure out the invitation prikey stuff.

First though, I figured out the discriminator bit. This is simple. On account creation, I just prepend a 8 bit tag. By making the tag the 256 SHA hash of operator name stored in operator main account, we can protect accounts from being discriminated from by people looking to target specific accounts.

So within an account, the only identifiable info in data will be the piece name. The piece names will generally have no indication of the creator.

I guess I can use js encrypt library.

LINKING PROCESS

Procedure for validating invitee: Call the link account function on client app. Client takes in the invitee's prikey and generates the corresponding pubkey. Next, the client takes pubkey and finds the right payfract account. This is by the getaccount method with filter by TARGET. Client then signs the address by SHA 256 encrypting account address with invitees private key. Client sends encrypted account address, plus the piece address, to payfract and requests a link. Payfract decrypts encrypted address with TARGET pubkey. If address == address, then payfract writes TARGET == piece address. The piece account may be a main piece, or it could be a general self piece. Finally, payfract will transfer ref acct funds to linked mainpiece and start recursive calling to propagate finds. Process will LOG (verification pass, link established, pulled funding, distributed to TREE.)

Actually, just realized that an 8B discriminator will be essential for operator main to keep track of it's payfract pieces. This way we don't need to keep a record of piece names.

ACCOUNT SETUP

Procedure for setting up new operator main account: (1) create main (2) create self
(1) client will get username (under 63 characters) and ask for signature and account to get setup lamports. Once sufficient funds verified, client will take this account's pubkey use it as a seed to derive address for operator main with 8B discriminator, int u64 BALANCE, and [256; u8] MAINID and int u32 PIECE#, u8 FLAGS, u8 TYPE. MAINID will be set to username. discriminator will be set as hash of pubkey. 
(2) payfract creates self piece account from (main addr + int=0), 


main is created via wallet pubkey as seed. Only balance exists.

Try this: self has operator username, address generated from address operator name + 0 of main, and discriminator all 1s. All other piece discriminators are hash of main address. If a new piece is made operator has to link same wallet to generate 

To create a new operator account:
```
Prerequisite info pieces: personal acct pubkey (Wpubkey), balance, operatorname

1 - give Wpubkey to PF to create / derive opmain address, PDA = gen(PFID + signed(pubkey))
	. DISC = hash mainADDR
	. PIECE# = 0
	. FLAGS = none
	. TYPE = none

2 - PF create self account, PDA = gen(opmainADDR + signed(pubkey) + 0)
	. DISC = 11111111
	. OPID: [256; u8] = operator username
	. REF# = 0
	. NET = u64
	. FLAGS = none
	. TYPE = none
  - PF create self-self account, PDA = gen(selfADDR + signed(pubkey) + 0)
	. DISC = 00000000
	. FLAGS = none
	. TYPE = none

```
To create a new piece account:
```
1 - give pubkey and signed username to PF, locate opmain and authenticate session
	. read PIECE#, generate current piece addresses, and list PIECEIDs
3 - take new piecename
	. create piece account, PDA = gen(opmainADDR + signed(pubkey) + (PIECE#+1))
	. if pda fail, try next integer
	. set PIECE# in opmain to new #
4 - populate new piece
	. DISC = signed(pubkey)
	. PIECEID: [256; u8] = piece name
	. REF# = 0
	. NET: u64 = 0
	. FLAGS = none
	. TYPE = none
5 - create piece-self account, PDA = gen(pieceADDR + signed(pubkey) + 0)
	. DISC = 00000000
	. FLAGS = none
	. TYPE = none
6 - add ref accounts, PDA = gen(pieceADDR + signed(pubkey) + 1..PIECE#])
	. DISC = hash pieceADDR + PIECEID
	. FLAGS = none
	. TYPE = none
	. TARGET: [32; u8] = pubkey
		or, = pieceADDR
	. NET
	. BALANCE
	. FRACT
	- return, prikey paired with tempID, or, connection confirmation
REPEAT
7 - connect to inviting piece ref accounts
	. generate pubkey from prikey and locate account
	. encrypt pubkey with prikey
	. pass to PF with pieceADDR to verify signature
	. if pass, then set TARGET to pieceADDR
	. issue transfer all from refacct BALANCE, then issue propagation
```
Make a tip:
```
, sign with wallet prikey to give PF permission to transfer to pieceACCT
. issue propagation
. if prop transaction fee is > than propagation, stop current call
. if prop reaches diconnected ref account, then stop current call
. if call depth is 4, disallow deeper calls BY OFFLOADING 
	ACCT GENERATION TO CLIENT, WE CAN AVOID REGRESSION LIMIT
```
issue propagation:
```
. get pieceACCT balance
. generate first 
```

 .... If you're the one tipping big, then perhaps your computer and internet connection can pay for the propagation. This way we can get around the 4 level invocation limit and propagate without limit. This however, would open the door to crippling propagation loops, where unless the transaction fee were high, it would take a *long* (many cycles) for the tip to propagate. EG, tip piece with frac near 100%, then piece tips back with frac near 100%.















