```
blairmunroakusa@0605.021122.anch.AK:goldcouch
```

### This is me writing about all the thinking I've done in the past day

I was tripping on whether or not payfract would be able to compute addresses on-chain. That looks fine after studying the solana program. Now my main concern is compute cost. I genuinely think that payfract server should not invoke fractal instances of itself on a chain like solana. Given a call will be restricted to a single piece, there is probably an upper limit number of associated ref accounts that the program can tend to given the compute budget.

I think that for the fractal aspect, it would make sense for payfract server to broadcast coordinates to the next piece (after ttransferring lamps from ref), coordinates that are essentially reflected back to the chain. Ideally, payfract program has the instruction set already written into it, and all the client has to do is reflect the packet for every piece in the fractal.

Okay got it. It will be fractal over time (and a lot more efficient). When I create a payfract, !!!WAIT...that's it. Let's use a different language set. There is only one blockchain, and there is only one payfract program, so there is effectively only one payment fractal. When I ..CONTRIBUTE! to THE payfract, first payfract adds tip to prior balance, then propagates to all associated references. The fractal trickles contributions in discrete time, where each step occurs either when a contribution is made, or a balance checked.

This way, contributions can propagate indefinitely.

```
blairmunroakusa@0737.021322.anch.AK:redcouch
```
So I believe the payfract contribution will at most be able to propagate to children pieces instantaneously (ie at time of transaction). Self invocation works to depth 1. Beecause of this, I want payfract to computer pieceref addresses on chain.

I am having a hard time figuring out the difference between the separate pack implementation, vs the borsh serialize derivation. I'm pretty sure I am going with the derivation.

Having a hard time finding where the discriminator is created in the anchor code. Fuck it, we'll do it live.

Right now I am trying to figure out whether or not the account creations need to be done on-chain, or if the client can just call the system program. I am just going to stick with what I was doing and do it on chain.








